Reinhard Heydrich

Dismissed as a naval officer, he headed the Sicherheitsdienst (SD) security service of the Schutzstaffel (1931-1942), added the Gestapo (1934-1936), the SIPO security police of the Gestapo and KRIPO criminal police (1936-1932), and the overall Reichssicherheitshauptamt (RSHA} Reich Main Security Service RSHA.

While the only suggestion that he was Jewish came from the surname of his father's stepfather, "Suess", there is no indication that Suess was actually Jewish, and he may have acted out anti-Semitism and nationalism to disprove the rumor.

A military court of honor, scandalized by his disrespectful behavior during his hearing, found him to have dishonored the officer corps of the Reich Navy and compelled him to resign his commission in April 1931.

Seeking at that time to create an internal intelligence service for the Nazi party, Himmler was so impressed by Heydrich's proposals that he brought him into the SS in August 1931 and tasked him with developing the SD.

When Himmler's SS became independent of the SA after the purge of SA chief of staff Ernst Röhm and the top SA leadership on June 30-July 2, 1934, Heydrich took command of the Gestapo while remaining chief of the SD.

Nine days after his appointment as Reichsführer SS and Chief of German Police on June 17, 1936, Himmler appointed Heydrich chief of the newly established Security Police (Nazi Germany) (SIPO) Main Office (Hauptamt Sicherheitspolizei) which combined the Gestapo and the KRIPO

As Heydrich explained in April 1936, racially conscious Germans must realize that “effective struggle against the enemy must derive from recognition of the fact that all visible, apparent enemies are but the tip of the iceberg of eternal, unchanging dangerous spiritual forces.” The enemies themselves were “eternally the same”: “the Jew, the Freemason, and the politically-oriented cleric.” The “invisible,” submerged, camouflaged ideological wellsprings of these “enemies” lay in the “infectious residue” of “Jewish, liberal and Freemasonic spirit,” modes of thinking (democracy, communism, Christian and liberal individualism) that were outgrowths of allegedly inherited racial characteristics.

From 1936 until 1939, Heydrich's formal title was “Chief of the Security Police and the SD.” After Poland was invaded, Himmler formally linked the Security Police and SD by decreeing the establishment of the RSHA on September 27, 1939, under Heydrich's command.

As a result, Hermann Goering, then deputy to Hitler, authorized Heydrich on January 24, 1939, to develop plans for a “solution to the Jewish Question” in the German Reich.

While it has never been confirmed, since the participants are dead, Hitler appears to have given verbal orders, in the summer of 1941, to Goering, then Hitler’s deputy, and Himmler, head of the SS, to begin planning what Goering, told Heydrirch on 31 July: coordinate the resources of the Reich “for a total solution of the Jewish Question in the area of German influence in Europe.” To this end, Heydrich was to submit a draft measures proposed “to implement the desired final solution of the Jewish Question.”

